# Five Minute Overview for End Users

## User Accounts

Your username and passphrase allow you to access the Bridge, and are the
only information you *must* provide to register.

There are, however, optional profile fields you may fill out if you feel
so inclined.

Airship will reject extremely weak passwords. A password manager, such
as KeePassX (which will also generate strong passwords for you), is 
strongly recommended.

## Authors

Although you can login with your username and password, most public 
interactions (blog posts, comments) will be done through an author
profile (think "pen name").

After you login, click **Authors** then **Create a New Author Profile**.
Here you can create your public persona, write any biographical
information you consider important, etc.

You can have as many Authors as you'd like, and each Author can be 
shared amongst your friends, coworkers, or colleagues (depending on the
purpose of your Airship).

## Blogs

The blogging platform we provide, *Hull*, is both simple and powerful.
But our access controls are stronger. (Check with your Captain that you
have permission to access these features or they will **not** appear on
your menu.)

### Categories

The main structure of blog posts is the category. Categories are like
folders on your computer: Where a folder on your computer can contain 
files as well as other folders, a category can contain other categories
in addition to blog posts.

Each blog post can be assigned to exactly one category, or none at all.

When browsing the Hull, any blog posts in the current category, or its
children, will be included in the listing.
 
### Series

A series allows you to give freeform structure to the way your blog 
posts are laid out. Series can contain either blog posts or other 
series.

For example, if you wanted to use Airship as a platform for publishing
your own e-book series, you might adopt a structure like this:

* **Book 1:** The Chronicles of Exampletown
  * Preface: A blog post
  * **Act 1:** Welcome to Exampletown
    * **Chapter 1**: Foo at the Bar
      * Page 1: A blog post
      * Page 2: Another blog post
    * **Chapter 2**: Bar Baz
      * Page 3: Yet another blog post
    * Interlude Blog Post
    * **Chapter 3**: The Example Intensifies
  * **Act 2:** Et Cetera
* **Book 2:** The Demonstration
* A Short Essay about a Minor Character
* **Book 3:** The "I Reckon"ing

The end goal is to allow creative flexibility with how blog posts are
structured.

Each blog post can be assigned to many series, simultaneously. You can
freely reorder them in the Bridge.

### Tags

Tags should be familiar to anyone who has used a blogging platform or
social media before. They represent specific topics that either don't
belong in their own category or are split across many appropriate
categories.

Each blog post can have many tags.

### Blog Posts

Unlike many platforms, we don't lock you into one way of doing things.
Presently, you can format your blog posts in:

* Markdown
* ReStructuredText
* Raw HTML
* Rich Text (WYSIWYG editor for HTML)

Type in your blog post in the textbox, then press the "Preview" tab
beneath it to see how it renders. If you're satisfied, you can press
Publish or Save Draft below (without having to go back to the Edit tab).
